# Security Issues in Cloud Computing

> The characteristics and models of the cloud computing presented in previous section offer improved, optimized, and low cost services to the customers. The above given models providing the mentioned characteristics are implemented using various technologies, for example virtualization and multi-tenancy. The technologies along with the cloud service and deployment models introduce cloud specific security risks and vulnerabilities in addition to shared risks with the conventional IT infrastructure [87]. The security risks in cloud may differ from the risks of conventional IT infrastructure either in nature or intensity or both. Resource pooling allows the use of same pool by multiple users through multi-tenancy and virtualization technologies. Although, the technologies introduce rapid elasticity and optimal management of resources, they also introduce certain risks in the system. Multi-tenancy leads to the risks of data visibility to other users and trace of operations. On-demand self-service characteristic is provided to the customers by means of Web based management interfaces that causes the probability of unauthorized access to the management interface higher than the traditional systems [28]. Similarly, virtualized environment introduces its own set of risks and vulnerabilities that includes malicious cooperation between virtual machines (VM) and VM escape. Likewise, from the cloud service model view point, the service models are dependent on each other. The SaaS applications are built and deployed over the PaaS and the PaaS is dependent on the underlying IaaS. This operational dependency of the service models on each other brings in the security dependency also. For example, if an attacker succeeds to take control of IaaS, the result will be a compromised PaaS that is utilizing IaaS. A compromised PaaS can lead to compromised SaaS. In short, any compromised service model gives access to other layer of the service model. The private cloud deployment model inherits the same set of vulnerabilities as possessed by the conventional IT infrastructure. The reason being the private cloud is meant for the use of a single organization. The public, community, and hybrid clouds possess more cloud specific vulnerabilities and risks due to presence of users from different origins and administrative control of a third party [15]. The presence of multi-tenants using virtualized resources that may correspond to same physical resources introduces many security concerns. The perfect segregation of numerous tenants and allocated resources is a complex task and needs much higher level of security. In the following discussion we present the security challenges being faced by the cloud computing. There are numerous works that look upon the cloud security challenges from service model perspective. In this paper we detail the challenges based on three abstract domains, namely, (a) architectural issues, (b) communication issues, and (c) contractual and legal issues. Some of the technologies in cloud computing do not affect any particular service model. Instead more than one models become affected, such as, virtualization that can affect both the IaaS and PaaS. Therefore, we look at the challenges at abstract level irrespective of the service model. The taxonomy of the security challenges in the cloud computing is depicted in Fig. 2.